doc/about-query.adoc, before:

=== Query

A query is a condition or a combination of them. A simple condition is
a _property-name,op,value_ tuple that can be matched against the
properties of a file.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
extension:jpg
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The tuple would match every file with a JPG extension (case
insensitive). It consists of a property name `extension`, a comparator
`:` and a value `jpg`. Tuples can be composed using the usual boolean
operation `and`, `or` and `not`. Compositions are grouped by parens.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
(& extension:jpg width>2000)
----------------------------------------------------------------------

This query would match every file with extension JPG _and_ a width
greater than 2000 pixels.

Names can be abbreviated to the shortest non-ambiguous term. So the
example above could be written like this:

----------------------------------------------------------------------
(& ext:jpg w>2000)
----------------------------------------------------------------------

See the xref:_properties[Properties] section for a list of property
names.

A `not` is specified by a `!` in front of a condition. This inverts
its subsequent condition.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
(& ext:jpg !w\<2000)
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Use a `|` instead of `&` to combine conditions with +or+:

----------------------------------------------------------------------
(| ext:jpg !w\<2000)
----------------------------------------------------------------------


With the _exists_ operator (`?`) a property can be checked for existence.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
extension?
----------------------------------------------------------------------

This would match every file that has an extension.


==== Whitespace

A simple value definition must not contain whitespace or parens. If a
value needs this, it must be quoted in single or double quotation
marks.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
model:'Nikon 1*'
model:"Nikon 1*"
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Both are equivalent and are provided for convenience (ususally the
shell's quotation must be escaped). Within a quoted value, the
quotation characters can be included using a backslash.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
model:"Nikon \"1*"
----------------------------------------------------------------------


==== Comparators

There are the following comparators.

`:`(like)::
    It compares strings case insensitive and allows to use the
    wildcard `*` to match zero or more characters. Properties that
    have numeric values are compared as strings. Date/Timestamps are
    converted to a standard pattern `yyyy-MM-dd HH:mm:ss` and matched
    against the input.
`=`(equal)::
    Compares strings case sensitive and converts non-string property
    values.
`\<`,`>`(lower/greater than)::
    For numeric comparisons. Compares strings alphabetically. Dates/
    Timestamps are converted to a numeric value before being compared.


==== Special Values

For some properties, values can be specified in different ways.

===== pixel

The `pixel` property is the product of `width` and `height`. Values
can be suffixed by `m` or `mp` to mean “mega pixel”.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
pixel>5m pixel\<2mp
----------------------------------------------------------------------


===== length

The `length` property denotes the size of a file in bytes. For
querying, numbers can be suffixed with either `kb`/`k`, `mb`/`m`, or
`gb`/`g` to mean the corresponding size.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
len>5m
----------------------------------------------------------------------


===== dates

_Specifying Dates_

The date and time string is written in format `year month day hour
minute second`. Year is specified with 4 digits, other groups with one
or two digits. Groups are separated by exactly one non-numeric
character except `#`. Often a dash is used for the date parts and a
colon for the time parts (and both parts are separated by space or
`T`), but any non-numeric character except `#` will do.

.Example
----------------------------------------------------------------------
2015-10-22 12:33:00
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Certain parts can be omitted and will be initialised with a default
value:

If the year is omitted, it is set to the current or last year, making
it a date in the past. So in Februar 2015, the string `10-10` would be
expanded to `2014-10-10`, but `01-14` would yield `2015-01-14`.

If parts are missing from the right, they are set to their first
values. So `2015-01` is expanded to `2015-01-01 00:00:00` and
`2015-05-12 12` to `2015-05-12 12:00:00` and so on.

Another option is to use date-keywords: reserved words that mean a
specific date (that differs from year to year):

- `now` yields the current date and time
- `eastersun` yields the start of easter sunday of current year
- `ascension` yields the day of ascension of the current year
- `whitsun` yields the start of whitsun (sunday)

The last option is to calculate a date from another one. Specify a
date as described above and add or subtract an amount of
time. Searching for photos from last week, on could write:

----------------------------------------------------------------------
date>now#-7d
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The term `now#-7d` means to subtract 7 days from `now` which is the
current date. All time parts of the result are set to 0. The `#`
character separates date definition and the amount to
add/subtract. The `now` keyword can be omitted, so

----------------------------------------------------------------------
date>-7d
----------------------------------------------------------------------

is the same. Instead of subtracting you can also add amounts.

The following units can be used to mean years, months, day, hours,
minutes and seconds, respectively: `y`, `m`, `d`, `h`, `min`,
`s`. Subtracting/adding date parts will set the time to 0 and missing
date parts to its current values. For example, on November 06. 2015
the term `-1y` would yield `2014-11-06 00:00:00`. Subtracting monthes
keeps the current year and day, instead. If no unit is specified, it
defaults to `d`.

_Comparing Dates_

If the `like` comparator is used, the date value of the photo is
converted to a string following the standard pattern `yyyy-MM-dd
HH:mm:ss`, for example `2015-10-23 14:40:22`, and this is matched
against the input pattern.

When other comparators are used, dates are converted to a point in
time and compared numerically. Local date/times (the `created`
property) are considered in default (system) time zone. Therefore,
using `like`, the input string is used as is and is not tried to
expand to a complete date/time value. For example, the following two
queries could yield same results (“could” because of time zone):

----------------------------------------------------------------------
date>2015-10   \<=>    date:2015-10*
----------------------------------------------------------------------

If the comparator is not `like`, an error is raised, if the date/time
cannot be expanded. Using like with `created` compares it to the exact
value as extracted from the file, where other comparators parse this
value into a local date and place it into the system time zone.


==== identifiers

Properties can be compared against each other. A special value is used
to indicate that a value should be interpreted as an identifier.

.Example
----------------------------------------------------------------------
width>'height
----------------------------------------------------------------------

This condition compares the `width` against the `height` property of a
file. The quote `'` without a closing one is used to indicate that the
value to compare `width` to should be looked up with identifier
`height`.


====  Macros

Macros are query conditions that expand to some other query
condition. They are used to capture common (and longer) conditions in
a succinct way. There are macros that use special property names and
those that add comparators. Special property names cannot be used in
format patterns, since they are not real properties.

There are the following macros:

===== date

This is a special property name that handles the case when there is no
`created` property (as provided only by exif data). It then falls back
to the `lastmodified` timestamp.

So the simple condition `date:2015*` is expanded into:

----------------------------------------------------------------------
(| created:2015* (& !created? lastmodified:2015*))
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The `date` macro cannot be specified in a format pattern literally,
but it can be encoded using a condition directive:

.date in format pattern
----------------------------------------------------------------------
~[created~;~#created~fyyyy-MM-dd HH:mm~;~#lastmodified~fyyyy-MM-dd HH:mm~]
----------------------------------------------------------------------

See xref:_format_patterns[Format Patterns] for details.


===== enumeration

The `~` comparator can be used to test whether a property is contained
in an enumeration of values.

To abbreviate conditions like the following:

----------------------------------------------------------------------
(| ext:jpg ext:png ext:gif)
----------------------------------------------------------------------

the `~` macro can be used. The value must be an enumeration, where
each item is separated by a semi-colon `;`. The wildcard (`*`)
character is not allowed for an item. The above query can be written
as:

----------------------------------------------------------------------
ext~jpg;png;gif
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Values are always compared case insensitive; as with `like` without
wildcards.


===== range

The `/` comparator abbreviates conditions that check range
containment. For example, to find files between 2 and 3 mega pixels
one could write this:

----------------------------------------------------------------------
(& pixel>2mp pixel\<3mp)
----------------------------------------------------------------------

With the `/` comparator, this can be abbreviated:

----------------------------------------------------------------------
pixel/2mp--3mp
----------------------------------------------------------------------

This works by parsing the value into a range: specifying the lower and
upper bound separated by two dashes `--`. That means that a single
value may not contain a double dash, since it is interpreted as the
separator.

Once the value is recognized being two values, the condition is
expanded in the standard range condition:

----------------------------------------------------------------------
(& pixel>2mp pixel\<3mp)
----------------------------------------------------------------------

There is a special syntax for date ranges. First of all, the standard
range syntax works:

----------------------------------------------------------------------
date:2015-10-10--2015-10-20
----------------------------------------------------------------------

This would create two date values, as described above in
xref:_dates[how date/times are specified]. Then it is expanded to an
`and` condition. Since the comparators `>` and `\<` are used, dates are
compared numerically and local dates are considered in the default
(system) time zone.

Then, you can specify the second date by calculating from the first
date. Normally, a term like `+7d` would subtract 7 days from the
current date. But if used in a range (the upper bound date), it will
use the lower bound date a the reference value. For instance:

----------------------------------------------------------------------
date:2015-10--+7d
----------------------------------------------------------------------

would expand to the following:

----------------------------------------------------------------------
date:2015-10-01--2015-10-08
----------------------------------------------------------------------


===== id

The id macro is useful when comparing file checksums. For each file
its sha256 checksum is generated and added to the property list (and
to the index). This value can be used as a file id.

When doing exact searches using these ids it is inconvenient to
specify the full checksum, which is a 64 character string. To uniquely
identify a file, the first 8-10 characters are usually sufficient
(unless you have really really many files). So one can use the `like`
comparator in most cases. The id macro does this:

----------------------------------------------------------------------
id:15e59afb0
----------------------------------------------------------------------

expands to

----------------------------------------------------------------------
checksum:15e59afb0*
----------------------------------------------------------------------

If the value is a complete checksum, then the `equal` operator is
used instead:

----------------------------------------------------------------------
id:04343d3ff0102c26eb355db5333266e77e6ef06db3c9bcbcc0bd30b7a1c92f38
----------------------------------------------------------------------

expands to

----------------------------------------------------------------------
checksum=04343d3ff0102c26eb355db5333266e77e6ef06db3c9bcbcc0bd30b7a1c92f38
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The comparator that is used with `id` does not matter. It is always
expanded in a `like` or `equal`.

Commit message:

create special IN condition
• Remove obsolete enum macro

• The in condition is like `(| a:v1 a:v2 … a:vN)` but allows more
  efficient implementation. Sqlite provides this IN operator, too and
  predicates need only a containment check.

• compares case insensitive (no wildcards)

doc/about-query.adoc, after:

=== Query

A query is a condition or a combination of them. A simple condition is
a _property-name,op,value_ tuple that can be matched against the
properties of a file.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
extension:jpg
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The tuple would match every file with a JPG extension (case
insensitive). It consists of a property name `extension`, a comparator
`:` and a value `jpg`. Tuples can be composed using the usual boolean
operation `and`, `or` and `not`. Compositions are grouped by parens.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
(& extension:jpg width>2000)
----------------------------------------------------------------------

This query would match every file with extension JPG _and_ a width
greater than 2000 pixels.

Names can be abbreviated to the shortest non-ambiguous term. So the
example above could be written like this:

----------------------------------------------------------------------
(& ext:jpg w>2000)
----------------------------------------------------------------------

See the xref:_properties[Properties] section for a list of property
names.

A `not` is specified by a `!` in front of a condition. This inverts
its subsequent condition.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
(& ext:jpg !w\<2000)
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Use a `|` instead of `&` to combine conditions with +or+:

----------------------------------------------------------------------
(| ext:jpg !w\<2000)
----------------------------------------------------------------------


With the _exists_ operator (`?`) a property can be checked for existence.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
extension?
----------------------------------------------------------------------

This would match every file that has an extension.


==== Whitespace

A simple value definition must not contain whitespace or parens. If a
value needs this, it must be quoted in single or double quotation
marks.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
model:'Nikon 1*'
model:"Nikon 1*"
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Both are equivalent and are provided for convenience (ususally the
shell's quotation must be escaped). Within a quoted value, the
quotation characters can be included using a backslash.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
model:"Nikon \"1*"
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Whitespace between condition elemens is optional. So `model : Nikon`
and `model:Nikon` are the same.


==== Comparators

There are the following comparators.

`:`(like)::
    It compares strings case insensitive and allows to use the
    wildcard `*` to match zero or more characters. Properties that
    have numeric values are compared as strings. Date/Timestamps are
    converted to a standard pattern `yyyy-MM-dd HH:mm:ss` and matched
    against the input.
`=`(equal)::
    Compares strings case sensitive and converts non-string property
    values.
`\<`,`>`(lower/greater than)::
    For numeric comparisons. Compares strings alphabetically. Dates/
    Timestamps are converted to a numeric value before being compared.
`~` (in)::
    Checks if a value is contained in a predifined set.


More about the `~` comparator, others are self explaining. The `~` can
be used to abbreviate conditions like the following:

----------------------------------------------------------------------
(| ext:jpg ext:png ext:gif)
----------------------------------------------------------------------

is

----------------------------------------------------------------------
ext~jpg;png;gif
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The value must be an enumeration, where each item is separated by a
semi-colon `;`. If an item contains a semicolon, it must be escaped
using a backslash `\`. If items contain whitespace the whole
enumeration must be enclosed in quotes, as usual.

Values are always compared case insensitive; as with `like` without
wildcards. The wildcard (`*`) character is not supported (it is not
treated specially).


==== Special Values

For some properties, values can be specified in different ways.

===== pixel

The `pixel` property is the product of `width` and `height`. Values
can be suffixed by `m` or `mp` to mean “mega pixel”.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
pixel>5m pixel\<2mp
----------------------------------------------------------------------


===== length

The `length` property denotes the size of a file in bytes. For
querying, numbers can be suffixed with either `kb`/`k`, `mb`/`m`, or
`gb`/`g` to mean the corresponding size.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
len>5m
----------------------------------------------------------------------


===== dates

_Specifying Dates_

The date and time string is written in format `year month day hour
minute second`. Year is specified with 4 digits, other groups with one
or two digits. Groups are separated by exactly one non-numeric
character except `#`. Often a dash is used for the date parts and a
colon for the time parts (and both parts are separated by space or
`T`), but any non-numeric character except `#` will do.

.Example
----------------------------------------------------------------------
2015-10-22 12:33:00
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Certain parts can be omitted and will be initialised with a default
value:

If the year is omitted, it is set to the current or last year, making
it a date in the past. So in Februar 2015, the string `10-10` would be
expanded to `2014-10-10`, but `01-14` would yield `2015-01-14`.

If parts are missing from the right, they are set to their first
values. So `2015-01` is expanded to `2015-01-01 00:00:00` and
`2015-05-12 12` to `2015-05-12 12:00:00` and so on.

Another option is to use date-keywords: reserved words that mean a
specific date (that differs from year to year):

- `now` yields the current date and time
- `eastersun` yields the start of easter sunday of current year
- `ascension` yields the day of ascension of the current year
- `whitsun` yields the start of whitsun (sunday)

The last option is to calculate a date from another one. Specify a
date as described above and add or subtract an amount of
time. Searching for photos from last week, on could write:

----------------------------------------------------------------------
date>now#-7d
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The term `now#-7d` means to subtract 7 days from `now` which is the
current date. All time parts of the result are set to 0. The `#`
character separates date definition and the amount to
add/subtract. The `now` keyword can be omitted, so

----------------------------------------------------------------------
date>-7d
----------------------------------------------------------------------

is the same. Instead of subtracting you can also add amounts.

The following units can be used to mean years, months, day, hours,
minutes and seconds, respectively: `y`, `m`, `d`, `h`, `min`,
`s`. Subtracting/adding date parts will set the time to 0 and missing
date parts to its current values. For example, on November 06. 2015
the term `-1y` would yield `2014-11-06 00:00:00`. Subtracting monthes
keeps the current year and day, instead. If no unit is specified, it
defaults to `d`.

_Comparing Dates_

If the `like` comparator is used, the date value of the photo is
converted to a string following the standard pattern `yyyy-MM-dd
HH:mm:ss`, for example `2015-10-23 14:40:22`, and this is matched
against the input pattern.

When other comparators are used, dates are converted to a point in
time and compared numerically. Local date/times (the `created`
property) are considered in default (system) time zone. Therefore,
using `like`, the input string is used as is and is not tried to
expand to a complete date/time value. For example, the following two
queries could yield same results (“could” because of time zone):

----------------------------------------------------------------------
date>2015-10   \<=>    date:2015-10*
----------------------------------------------------------------------

If the comparator is not `like`, an error is raised, if the date/time
cannot be expanded. Using like with `created` compares it to the exact
value as extracted from the file, where other comparators parse this
value into a local date and place it into the system time zone.


==== identifiers

Properties can be compared against each other. A special value is used
to indicate that a value should be interpreted as an identifier.

.Example
----------------------------------------------------------------------
width>'height
----------------------------------------------------------------------

This condition compares the `width` against the `height` property of a
file. The quote `'` without a closing one is used to indicate that the
value to compare `width` to should be looked up with identifier
`height`.


====  Macros

Macros are query conditions that expand to some other query
condition. They are used to capture common (and longer) conditions in
a succinct way. There are macros that use special property names and
those that add comparators. Special property names cannot be used in
format patterns, since they are not real properties.

There are the following macros:

===== date

This is a special property name that handles the case when there is no
`created` property (as provided only by exif data). It then falls back
to the `lastmodified` timestamp.

So the simple condition `date:2015*` is expanded into:

----------------------------------------------------------------------
(| created:2015* (& !created? lastmodified:2015*))
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The `date` macro cannot be specified in a format pattern literally,
but it can be encoded using a condition directive:

.date in format pattern
----------------------------------------------------------------------
~[created~;~#created~fyyyy-MM-dd HH:mm~;~#lastmodified~fyyyy-MM-dd HH:mm~]
----------------------------------------------------------------------

See xref:_format_patterns[Format Patterns] for details.


===== range

The `/` comparator abbreviates conditions that check range
containment. For example, to find files between 2 and 3 mega pixels
one could write this:

----------------------------------------------------------------------
(& pixel>2mp pixel\<3mp)
----------------------------------------------------------------------

With the `/` comparator, this can be abbreviated:

----------------------------------------------------------------------
pixel/2mp--3mp
----------------------------------------------------------------------

This works by parsing the value into a range: specifying the lower and
upper bound separated by two dashes `--`. That means that a single
value may not contain a double dash, since it is interpreted as the
separator.

Once the value is recognized being two values, the condition is
expanded in the standard range condition:

----------------------------------------------------------------------
(& pixel>2mp pixel\<3mp)
----------------------------------------------------------------------

There is a special syntax for date ranges. First of all, the standard
range syntax works:

----------------------------------------------------------------------
date:2015-10-10--2015-10-20
----------------------------------------------------------------------

This would create two date values, as described above in
xref:_dates[how date/times are specified]. Then it is expanded to an
`and` condition. Since the comparators `>` and `\<` are used, dates are
compared numerically and local dates are considered in the default
(system) time zone.

Then, you can specify the second date by calculating from the first
date. Normally, a term like `+7d` would subtract 7 days from the
current date. But if used in a range (the upper bound date), it will
use the lower bound date a the reference value. For instance:

----------------------------------------------------------------------
date:2015-10--+7d
----------------------------------------------------------------------

would expand to the following:

----------------------------------------------------------------------
date:2015-10-01--2015-10-08
----------------------------------------------------------------------


===== id

The id macro is useful when comparing file checksums. For each file
its sha256 checksum is generated and added to the property list (and
to the index). This value can be used as a file id.

When doing exact searches using these ids it is inconvenient to
specify the full checksum, which is a 64 character string. To uniquely
identify a file, the first 8-10 characters are usually sufficient
(unless you have really really many files). So one can use the `like`
comparator in most cases. The id macro does this:

----------------------------------------------------------------------
id:15e59afb0
----------------------------------------------------------------------

expands to

----------------------------------------------------------------------
checksum:15e59afb0*
----------------------------------------------------------------------

If the value is a complete checksum, then the `equal` operator is
used instead:

----------------------------------------------------------------------
id:04343d3ff0102c26eb355db5333266e77e6ef06db3c9bcbcc0bd30b7a1c92f38
----------------------------------------------------------------------

expands to

----------------------------------------------------------------------
checksum=04343d3ff0102c26eb355db5333266e77e6ef06db3c9bcbcc0bd30b7a1c92f38
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The comparator that is used with `id` does not matter. It is always
expanded in a `like` or `equal`.
