doc/about-property.adoc, before:

=== Properties

When chee sees a file, it extracts certain properties and uses these
to answer queries. Every file is represented as a set of properties.

There are basic file properties that can be obtained from any file:

.Standard file properties:
- `checksum` a sha256 checksum of the file
- `location` the location of a file
- `path` the absolute file name
- `filename` the name of the file (with extension)
- `extension` the file extension
- `length` the file size
- `lastmodified` the last modified time of the file
- `added` the time the file has been added to chee
- `mimetype` the mimetype of the file

Then there are properties that are only applicable to image files:

.Image roperties:
- `created` the created timestamp. This timestamp is saved by the
  camera when taking the picture. The problem is, that there is no
  time zone information supplied. Thus this timestamp is considered
  being in the “current” time zone (the system default time zone).
- `make` camera make
- `model` camera model
- `width` width of the image (pixel)
- `height` height of the image (pixel)
- `orientation` the orientation tag (integer)
- `iso` the iso value

If image properties cannot be obtained from a file, they are ignored
(they are then not part of the properties set of that file).


==== Virtual Properties

Virtual properties are not extracted from an image, but computed from
existing properties. They can be used in queries and format
patterns. Since the query language does not support arithmetic,
virtual properties provide a way to have predefined functions. See the
chapters about xref:_query[queries] and xref:_format_patterns[format
patterns] for more information.

Currently there is one such property:

===== pixel

It is the product of `width` and `height` and allows to query images
based on their pixel size.

For instance, find photos with more than 5 mega pixel: `pixel>5m`.

Commit message:

add a virtual property `encrypted`
• Has either one of the two values `pbc` or `pkc` which are the
  extensions used to indicate encrypted files.

• The `oneline` format pattern prints a unicode lock character for
  encrypted files.

doc/about-property.adoc, after:

=== Properties

When chee sees a file, it extracts certain properties and uses these
to answer queries. Every file is represented as a set of properties.

There are basic file properties that can be obtained from any file:

.Standard file properties:
- `checksum` a sha256 checksum of the file
- `location` the location of a file
- `path` the absolute file name
- `filename` the name of the file (with extension)
- `extension` the file extension
- `length` the file size
- `lastmodified` the last modified time of the file
- `added` the time the file has been added to chee
- `mimetype` the mimetype of the file

Then there are properties that are only applicable to image files:

.Image roperties:
- `created` the created timestamp. This timestamp is saved by the
  camera when taking the picture. The problem is, that there is no
  time zone information supplied. Thus this timestamp is considered
  being in the “current” time zone (the system default time zone).
- `make` camera make
- `model` camera model
- `width` width of the image (pixel)
- `height` height of the image (pixel)
- `orientation` the orientation tag (integer)
- `iso` the iso value

If image properties cannot be obtained from a file, they are ignored
(they are then not part of the properties set of that file).


==== Virtual Properties

Virtual properties are not extracted from an image, but computed from
existing properties. They can be used in queries and format
patterns. Since the query language does not support arithmetic,
virtual properties provide a way to have predefined functions. See the
chapters about xref:_query[queries] and xref:_format_patterns[format
patterns] for more information.

Currently there are the following virtual properties:

===== pixel

It is the product of `width` and `height` and allows to query images
based on their pixel size.

For instance, find photos with more than 5 mega pixel: `pixel>5m`.


===== encrypted

This property is present if the file is encrypted. It contains either
`pbc` or `pkc` indicating that the file is password encrypted (the
former) or public key encrypted (the latter). Files that are not
encrypted don't have a value for this property.
