doc/cmd-scale.adoc, before:

=== scale

Scales images.

[subs="attributes,specialchars"]
.Usage
----------------------------------------------------------------------
{usage-scale}
----------------------------------------------------------------------

.Example
----------------------------------------------------------------------
chee scale --maxlen 1200 -o ./scaledir 'date:201410*'
----------------------------------------------------------------------

This command resizes images. As with `thumb` images are not changed,
but new files are written.

The images to scale are selected by a `query`. If non-image files are
selected, they are skipped silently. Other options for querying are
the same as with the `find` command. See xref:_find[here] for more
details.

The output is rendered (like with `find`) using a format pattern. It
can be specfified with `--pattern`. When evaluating the format
pattern, standard properties are retrieved from the scaled image but
image metadata (all image properties except `width` and `height`) is
taken from the original image. Additionall, all properties from the
original image are available and prefixed by `origin-`.

By default, new images are written to a directory in chee's working
directory. With `--outdir` another dircetory can be specified.

With `--nameformat` you can specify a format pattern to determine the
target filename. By default, a name containing the checksum of the
original file and the target size is generated. This pattern is
evaluated against the properties of the original file plus
`target-width` and `target-height` that are set to the dimensions of
the scaled image.

The options `--maxlen` and `--multiply` specify how to scale. One of
them must be specified.

With `--maxlen` you can specify a maximum height or width. The image
is scaled such that the larger side does not exceed `maxlen`.  If an
image's dimension is already below this value, it is not scaled.

With `multiply` an image is scaled by multiplying its height and width
with the given factor.

Commit message:

scale/thumb: process files in parallel

doc/cmd-scale.adoc, after:

=== scale

Scales images.

[subs="attributes,specialchars"]
.Usage
----------------------------------------------------------------------
{usage-scale}
----------------------------------------------------------------------

.Example
----------------------------------------------------------------------
chee scale --maxlen 1200 -o ./scaledir 'date:201410*'
----------------------------------------------------------------------

This command resizes images. As with `thumb` images are not changed,
but new files are written.

The images to scale are selected by a `query`. If non-image files are
selected, they are skipped silently. Other options for querying are
the same as with the `find` command. See xref:_find[here] for more
details.

The output is rendered (like with `find`) using a format pattern. It
can be specfified with `--pattern`. When evaluating the format
pattern, standard properties are retrieved from the scaled image but
image metadata (all image properties except `width` and `height`) is
taken from the original image. Additionall, all properties from the
original image are available and prefixed by `origin-`.

By default, new images are written to a directory in chee's working
directory. With `--outdir` another dircetory can be specified.

With `--nameformat` you can specify a format pattern to determine the
target filename. By default, a name containing the checksum of the
original file and the target size is generated. This pattern is
evaluated against the properties of the original file plus
`target-width` and `target-height` that are set to the dimensions of
the scaled image.

With `--concurrent` the processing is done in parallel. Note, that the
order of the result differs from the input list.

The options `--maxlen` and `--multiply` specify how to scale. One of
them must be specified.

With `--maxlen` you can specify a maximum height or width. The image
is scaled such that the larger side does not exceed `maxlen`.  If an
image's dimension is already below this value, it is not scaled.

With `multiply` an image is scaled by multiplying its height and width
with the given factor.
