doc/cmd-find.adoc, before:

=== find

The `find` command executes a query against all locations or a
directory.

[subs="attributes,specialchars"]
.Usage
----------------------------------------------------------------------
{usage-find}
----------------------------------------------------------------------

.Example
----------------------------------------------------------------------
chee find created:201410*
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Find searches by default all locations. If `--file` is given, it
searches a directory instead. Note that using `--file` takes longer,
since the directory must be traversed. When searching locations, a
index is used and searching this is much faster. If you use `--file`
you can also specify `--recursive` to recursively traverse the
directory.

The option `--all` has two meanings, whether `--file` is specified or
not: Normally with `--file`, the directory is scanned for image and
video files and all other are skipped. This is done by using a default
query and with `--all` this default query is ignored. The default
query can be changed in the configuration file; see the
xref:_configuration[configuration] chapter for details.

If `--file` is not specified, the index is searched and
non-existing files are not in the result. Then `--all` will ignore
this and non-existing files show up in the result.

With `--first` the result can be limited to the first `n` files.

The output can be controlled with a format pattern, specified by the
`--pattern` option. Please see the chapter on
xref:_format_patterns[Format Patterns] on how to use this. If no
pattern is specified, certain properties of the files are printed,
each on one line.

The `query` is used to search a directory or the index. If multiple
conditions are given, they are wrapped in a `(& …)`. Please see the
page abount xref:_query[queries] for details.

Other commands that operate on a set of files usually share these options

Commit message:

use only idents from the map itself
• The `LazyMap` returns a set of keys that are now used in the loop
  directive.

• Remove command `collection list` and make `collection show` more
  flexible. Output can now be controlled with a format pattern.

doc/cmd-find.adoc, after:

=== find

The `find` command executes a query against all locations or a
directory.

[subs="attributes,specialchars"]
.Usage
----------------------------------------------------------------------
{usage-find}
----------------------------------------------------------------------

.Example
----------------------------------------------------------------------
chee find created:201410*
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Find searches by default all locations. If `--file` is given, it
searches a directory instead. Note that using `--file` takes longer,
since the directory must be traversed. When searching locations, a
index is used and searching this is much faster. If you use `--file`
you can also specify `--recursive` to recursively traverse the
directory.

The option `--all` has two meanings, whether `--file` is specified or
not: Normally with `--file`, the directory is scanned for image and
video files and all other are skipped. This is done by using a default
query and with `--all` this default query is ignored. The default
query can be changed in the configuration file; see the
xref:_configuration[configuration] chapter for details.

If `--file` is not specified, the index is searched and
non-existing files are not in the result. Then `--all` will ignore
this and non-existing files show up in the result.

With `--first` the result can be limited to the first `n` files.

The output can be controlled with a format pattern, specified by the
`--pattern` option. Please see the chapter on
xref:_format_patterns[Format Patterns] on how to use this. If no
pattern is specified, certain properties of the files are printed,
each on one line. The value for `--pattern` can be a reference to a
pattern in the configuration file or a pattern definition. There are
three predefined patterns: `oneline` (the default), `detail` and
`lisp`. If the pattern is not one of these, it is tried to find in the
configuration file and then it is used as a pattern itself.

The `query` is used to search a directory or the index. If multiple
conditions are given, they are wrapped in a `(& …)`. Please see the
page abount xref:_query[queries] for details.

Other commands that operate on a set of files usually share these options
