doc/cmd-mv.adoc, before:

=== mv

Moves files and directories.

.Usage
----------------------------------------------------------------------
<usage_mv>
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The `mv` moves (or renames) files and synchronises the index
accordingly. It works only for files that are known to chee (in a
location). Files and directories can only be moved between
locations. But location root directories can be moved to unknown
directories, then chee removes the old location and adds the new one
with the same parameters (recursive scanning) as the old one.

Multiple source files can be specified. The last file is the
target. The target must be an existing directory if multiple source
files are specified.

Here are some examples:

.Move files inside a location
----------------------------------------------------------------------
chee mv DSC_7600.JPG dsc_7600_1.jpg
----------------------------------------------------------------------

This renames the file to lowercase. The same is used to rename
directories.


.Move directory from one location to another
----------------------------------------------------------------------
chee mv loc1/sdcard0 loc2/
----------------------------------------------------------------------

This moves the directory `sdcard0` to another location `loc2`. Since
`loc2` exists, the directory `loc2/sdcard0` is created.


.Move multiple files in a directory
----------------------------------------------------------------------
chee mv loc1/*.jpg loc1/old
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The target `loc1/old` must be an existing directory. The `loc1/*.jpg`
uses shell expansion to get all files with a `jpg` extension to move
them in the folder `old`.


.Move a location
----------------------------------------------------------------------
chee mv loc1/ newloc/
----------------------------------------------------------------------

This moves the location root `loc1` to a new one `newloc`. The
location `loc1` is removed from the config file and `newloc` is added
with options from `loc1`.

Commit message:

drop location management for easier commands
• This is a major rework. Managing location directories explicitely
  seemed strange and not very useful. Instead simply add directories
  without any more meaning to it. Chee still stores location directories
  as before (the directories give to the add or sync command).

• Remove all `location ...` commands and add new ones: `add`, `sync`,
  `import` and `info`.

• Commands add, sync and import support now encrypted files.

• Move it tests into test configuration to share common code.

• Fixes config loading in that directories specified in code always
  override any other given value (even system properties).

doc/cmd-mv.adoc, after:

=== mv

Moves files and directories.

.Usage
----------------------------------------------------------------------
<usage_mv>
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The `mv` moves (or renames) files and synchronises the index
accordingly. It works only for files that are known to chee (are
indexed). Otherwise, use import or add to add files to the index.

Multiple source files can be specified. The last file is the
target. The target must be an existing directory if multiple source
files are specified.

Here are some examples:

.Move files
----------------------------------------------------------------------
chee mv DSC_7600.JPG dsc_7600_1.jpg
----------------------------------------------------------------------

This renames the file to lowercase. The same is used to rename
directories.

.Move multiple files in a directory
----------------------------------------------------------------------
chee mv loc1/*.jpg loc1/old
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The target `loc1/old` must be an existing directory. The `loc1/*.jpg`
uses shell expansion to get all files with a `jpg` extension to move
them in the folder `old`.

.Move directory (1)
----------------------------------------------------------------------
chee mv loc1/sdcard0 loc2/
----------------------------------------------------------------------

This moves the directory `sdcard0` into another one `loc2`. Since
`loc2` exists, the directory `loc2/sdcard0` is created.


.Rename a directory (2)
----------------------------------------------------------------------
chee mv loc1/ newloc/
----------------------------------------------------------------------

This moves the directory `loc1` to a new one `newloc`. Since `loc1` is
indexed, the directory is renamed and the index is updated such that
path and location properties point to the new one `newloc`.
