doc/cmd-mktree.adoc, before:

=== mktree

The `mktree` command copies or symlinks a set of files into another
directory.

[subs="attributes,specialchars"]
.Usage
----------------------------------------------------------------------
{usage-mktree}
----------------------------------------------------------------------

To select the files to symlink or copy, the same options as for the
`find` command are used. Additionally, there are options that control
the target filename and whether to overwrite existing files or not.

The `--overwrite` option tells chee to overwrite existing files. By
default, they are skipped.

The `--pattern` option is used to determine the target filename. This
is a xref:_format_patterns[format pattern] and the default value
will make a filename like this:
`<year>/<month>/<day>-<hour>-<minute>_<filename>`. That is, files are
sorted in a directory structure based on their `created` or
`lastmodified` property. As with the `find` command, you can specify a
pattern at the command line or refer to a pattern from the config
file under the key `chee.formats`.

The `--target` option specifies the directory to transfer
files to. The name that results from `--pattern` is appended to
this. It is by default the current working directory. If a target
directory does not exist, it is created.

The `query` argument is the query string that is run against the index
or a directory (if `-f` is given). See xref:_query[query] concept page
for details.

Only one action option should be specified, if more are given, the
last option wins.

Commit message:

add more options for passwords
• get passwords from files or commands; not via options

• add config settings for password files and commands

• documentation updates

doc/cmd-mktree.adoc, after:

=== mktree

The `mktree` command copies or symlinks a set of files into another
directory.

[subs="attributes,specialchars"]
.Usage
----------------------------------------------------------------------
{usage-mktree}
----------------------------------------------------------------------

To select the files to symlink or copy, the same options as for the
`find` command are used. Additionally, there are options that control
the target filename and whether to overwrite existing files or not.

The `--overwrite` option tells chee to overwrite existing files. By
default, they are skipped.

The `--pattern` option is used to determine the target filename. This
is a xref:_format_patterns[format pattern] and the default value
will make a filename like this:
`<year>/<month>/<day>-<hour>-<minute>_<filename>`. That is, files are
sorted in a directory structure based on their `created` or
`lastmodified` property. As with the `find` command, you can specify a
pattern at the command line or refer to a pattern from the config
file under the key `chee.formats`.

The `--target` option specifies the directory to transfer
files to. The name that results from `--pattern` is appended to
this. It is by default the current working directory. If a target
directory does not exist, it is created.

Only one action option (symlink, relative symlink or copy) should be
specified, if more are given, the last option wins.

By default, all encrypted files are skipped. With `-d` those files are
tried to decrypt. The _Decryption options_ can be used to specify how
to decrypt. Since there are two encryption methods, it is possible to
use both or just one. If there are only options for one method given,
the other is not used (meaning these encrypted files are skipped).

The `query` argument is the query string that is run against the index
or a directory (if `-f` is given). See xref:_query[query] concept page
for details.
